The world's largest wilderness is on the western edge of India.
Rann of Kutch, a huge salt lake
Once upon a time this was also part of the ocean
But during thousands of years such geographical changes took place that it became the largest salt pond in the world. This barren desert spread over about twenty thousand square kilometers.
Where once resided one of the greatest cities in the unknown history of India.
Dholavira of Harappa
It was discovered in 1956 but the remains of Dholavira remained buried in the ground for thirty-five years.
The excavation of Dholavira started in 1990. The work was very laborious.
Precious things were found after many years of excavation
But one day a strange thing happened
A white stone was seen coming out of the ground.
Then symbols started appearing which probably belonged to some ancient language or code or perhaps from some other world, such a thing had never been found here before.
Could it reveal the hidden secrets of the Indus Valley Civilization?
Whose key is hidden in a language that no one has been able to understand till now
A total of ten symbols were found one after the other
were all made of white gypsum
The most shocking and best thing about the discovery made in Dholavira is that bones and logistics were found near the base of the gate of that city and it may have been a signboard at that time.
But we do not know what is written on it and the biggest reason why we do not know is that we cannot read it, so the problem with the Harappan inscriptions is that till date we have not been able to find anyone to read them.
haven't been able to understand them yet
That is why the symbols of Dholavira remain a secret even today.
Dholavira, located in today's Kutch district of Gujarat, was once a part of the Indus Valley Civilization and one of its finest cities.
Archeology believes that it is spread over about one hundred and twenty acres.
was five thousand years old
Older than the Great Pyramid of Egypt
Dholavira remained inhabited for about one and a half thousand years
The people of Dholavira were very civilized people.
They had very advanced technology even at that time
Think for yourself, in three thousand six hundred and twenty AD, they had made drains under the ground, they had baked bricks and there was a city which was settled according to a plan.
That city was built on a platform, which means that he knew about civic planning, he had a very good understanding of Trigun Maitri, he had an idea of ​​ratios and he knew the calculations which are necessary to establish a metropolis.
But who were the people who settled this ancient city?
He used the May Tree at a time when the world did not even know about it
We will never know whether our ancestors made clay models to build their cities.
But there is no doubt that he had knowledge of civil engineering, geology and hydrological.
Dholavira was a city of that time which had a very good water system.
This city was situated between two rivers
Mana river used to flow in the north and Manhar river in the south. Both the rivers were connected by interconnected tanks built across the city. Today in the twenty-first century, there is a shortage of drinking water all over the world and due to which wars can happen. He had controlled the water in Dholavira, those channels
And we used to use dams, we can use those things today by taking advice from Dholavira.
Five thousand years ago Dholavira was a very busy port in the Arabian Sea and trade was at its peak.
And the people here were planning to export
Beads made in Dholavira have been found as far as Mesopotamia, i.e. in today's Iraq.
It was not possible to find out about Dholavira as to how he suddenly disappeared. Dholavira belonged to that era, an advanced civilization had harnessed the powers of nature. People did business all over the world. Its population was several thousand and he suddenly disappeared. What was the reason, most of the researchers
Know that the biggest reason was climate change
After this, the ancient people of India took their secrets with them and went somewhere else.
What happened to his writings? Where did his technology for building the city go? Where did all this disappear? On finding answers to these questions, only more questions arise.
We are still trying to get information about Dholavira
But perhaps most of his secrets will remain as mysterious as his coat